Add documentation about CruiseControlOperation feature (#76)
banzaicloud/koperator-docs: docs/cruisecontroloperation.md

      Number of intra broker replica movements: "0"
      Number of leader movements: "0"
      Number of replica movements: "36"
      Provision recommendation: '[ReplicaDistributionGoal] Remove at least 4 brokers.'
      Recent windows: "1" 
  errorPolicy: retry
  retryCount: 0
```

The `status.currentTask` describes the Cruise Control task. The `httpRequest` field contains the whole POST HTTP request which has been executed. The `id` is the Cruise Control task identifier number. The `state` shows the progress of the add_broker request. The `summary` is the Cruise Control's optimization proposal. It shows the scope of the changes that Cruise Control will be applied through the operation. When a task execution completed with an error and there are re-executions the `retryCount` shows the number of the retries. In this case the history of the failed tasks are visible with the error message in the `status.failedTask` field list.  
You can also find information from the fields [here](https://github.com/banzaicloud/koperator/blob/master/api/v1alpha1/cruisecontroloperation_types.go)

## How can we have control over the created CruiseControlOperation?

> - The task execution can be stopped gracefully when the `CruiseControlOperation` is deleted. In this case the corresponding `cruiseControlState` or the `cruiseControlVolumeState` will get succeeded state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The task execution can be stopped gracefully when the `CruiseControlOperation` is deleted. In this case the corresponding `cruiseControlState` or the `cruiseControlVolumeState` will become `succeeded`.
```

Author: I think we should not highlight the `succeeded` word.

Reviewer: Yeah, I guess you may right, I highlighted it because I was guessing that was what the state was called. If that's not the case then my sentence doesn't even make sense here anyway. :D

> - `cruiseControlOperation.spec.errorPolicy` defines how the failed Cruise Control task should be handled. When the `errorPolicy` is **retry** (which is the default value), the Koperator re-executes the failed task in every 30 sec. When it is "ignore", the Koperator handles the failed task as completed thus the `cruiseControlState` or the `cruiseControlVolumeState` will get succeeded state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `cruiseControlOperation.spec.errorPolicy` defines how the failed Cruise Control task should be handled. When the `errorPolicy` is **retry**, Koperator re-executes the failed task every 30 seconds. When it is **ignore**, Koperator handles the failed task as completed thus the `cruiseControlState` or the `cruiseControlVolumeState` will become `succeeded`.
```

> - When there is a Cruise Control task which can not be completed without an error and the  `cruiseControlOperation.spec.errorPolicy` is retry, the Koperator will re-execute the task until it is succeeded. This automatic re-execution can be paused with a label on the corresponding `CruiseControlOperation` CR (check the example below). When the **pause** label is not equal **true** or it the label is removed, the re-execution will be continued. This can be useful when the reason of the error cannot be fixed any time soon but you want to retry the operation later when the problem is solved. A paused `CruiseControlOperation` will not be considered when selecting operation for execution. It means when a new `CruiseControlOperation` with same operation (`status.currentTask.operation`) type is created it will be executed and the paused one will be skipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When there is a Cruise Control task which can not be completed without an error and the  `cruiseControlOperation.spec.errorPolicy` is retry, the Koperator will re-execute the task until it is succeeds. This automatic re-execution can be paused with a label on the corresponding `CruiseControlOperation` CR (check the example below). When the **pause** label does not equal **true** or if the label is removed, re-execution will continue. This can be useful when the reason of the error cannot be fixed any time soon but you want to retry the operation later when the problem is solved. A paused `CruiseControlOperation` will not be considered when selecting operation for execution. This means that when a new `CruiseControlOperation` with same operation (`status.currentTask.operation`) type is created it will be executed and the paused one will be skipped.
```

```yaml
kind: CruiseControlOperation
metadata:
...
  name: kafka-addbroker-mhh72
  labels:
    pause: "true"
...
```

> - You can set automatic cleanup time for the created `CruiseControlOperations` in the `KafkaCluster` custom resource. In the above example the finished (completed successfully or completedWithError and errorPolicy: ignore) `CruiseControlOperation` custom resources will be deleted after the 300 sec elapsed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can set automatic cleanup time for the created `CruiseControlOperations` in the `KafkaCluster` custom resource. In the example below the finished (completed successfully or completedWithError and errorPolicy: ignore) `CruiseControlOperation` custom resources will be deleted after 300 seconds elapsed.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.banzaicloud.io/v1beta1
kind: KafkaCluster
...
spec:
...
  cruiseControlConfig:
    cruiseControlOperationSpec:
      ttlSecondsAfterFinished: 300
...
```

### Example for the ignore and pause use-cases

1. In the first example we extended the Kafka cluster with one broker. Now we will remove 2 brokers at the same time by editing the `KafkaCluster` custom resource.

```yaml
 Spec:
 ...  
   brokers:
    - id: 0
      brokerConfigGroup: "default"
    - id: 1
      brokerConfigGroup: "default"
```

> 2. There will be `remove_broker` operations for both brokers (kafka-removebroker-lg7qm, kafka-removebroker-4plfq). The first one is already in running state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. There will be `remove_broker` operations for both brokers (kafka-removebroker-lg7qm, kafka-removebroker-4plfq). The first one is already in running state in the example below.
```

                "cruiseControlState": "GracefulDownscaleRunning"
            },
        ...
        },
        "3": {
        ...
            "gracefulActionState": {
                "cruiseControlOperationReference": {
                    "name": "kafka-removebroker-4plfq"
                },
                "cruiseControlState": "GracefulDownscaleScheduled"
            },
        ...
        }
```

3. We assume that something unexpected happened this time so the remove_broker operation will get `GracefulDownscaleCompletedWithError` state.

```yaml
status:
...
  brokersState:
        "2": {
        ...
            "gracefulActionState": {
                "cruiseControlOperationReference": {
                    "name": "kafka-removebroker-lg7qm"
                },
                "cruiseControlState": "GracefulDownscaleCompletedWithError"
            },
        ...
        },
        "3": {
        ...
            "gracefulActionState": {
                "cruiseControlOperationReference": {
                    "name": "kafka-removebroker-4plfq"
                },
                "cruiseControlState": "GracefulDownscaleScheduled"
            },
        ...
        }

> ```

Reviewer 2: **Question**: Why are we using JSON code inside YAML here? (JSON is less eye-friendly, but syntactically valid, just not sure whether it is intentional.)

Same for the other blocks below containing braces and double quotes.

Author: It was a mistake. Should I rewrite those into yaml?

> 4. At this point we can decide to let this problematic operation to be retried which is the default behavior or **ignore** the error or use the **pause** label to pause the retry execution and let the `Koperator` to execute the next operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. At this point we can decide to let this problematic operation to be retried which is the default behavior or **ignore** the error or use the **pause** label to pause the retry execution and let `Koperator` execute the next operation.
```

> 4. At this point we can decide to let this problematic operation to be retried which is the default behavior or **ignore** the error or use the **pause** label to pause the retry execution and let the `Koperator` to execute the next operation.

Reviewer 2: **Recommended**: formatting (consistency), phrasing.

```suggestion
4. At this point we can decide to let this problematic operation to be retried which is the default behavior or `ignore` the error or use the `pause` label to pause the retry execution and let Koperator execute the next operation.
```

> - Ignore use-case:  This time the ignore has been chosen by setting of the `cruiseControlOperation.spec.errorPolicy` to **ignore**. This operation will be considered as a succeeded operation thus the broker pod and the persistent volume will be removed from the Kubernetes cluster and from the `KafkaCluster` status. The `Koperator` will execute the next `remove_broker` (kafka-removebroker-4plfq) `CruiseControlOperation`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ignore use-case:  This time ignoring the error has been chosen by setting the `cruiseControlOperation.spec.errorPolicy` to **ignore**. This operation will be considered successful, thus the broker pod and the persistent volume will be removed from the Kubernetes cluster and the `KafkaCluster` status, and `Koperator` will execute the next `remove_broker` (kafka-removebroker-4plfq) `CruiseControlOperation`.
```

> - Ignore use-case:  This time the ignore has been chosen by setting of the `cruiseControlOperation.spec.errorPolicy` to **ignore**. This operation will be considered as a succeeded operation thus the broker pod and the persistent volume will be removed from the Kubernetes cluster and from the `KafkaCluster` status. The `Koperator` will execute the next `remove_broker` (kafka-removebroker-4plfq) `CruiseControlOperation`.

Reviewer 2: **Recommended**: formatting (consistency).

```suggestion
- Ignore use-case:  This time the ignore has been chosen by setting of the `cruiseControlOperation.spec.errorPolicy` to `ignore`. 
   This operation will be considered as a succeeded operation thus the broker pod and the persistent volume will be removed from the Kubernetes cluster and from the `KafkaCluster` status. 
   The `Koperator` will execute the next `remove_broker` (`kafka-removebroker-4plfq`) `CruiseControlOperation`.
```

```yaml
status:
...
  brokersState:
        "3": {
        ...
            "gracefulActionState": {
                "cruiseControlOperationReference": {
                    "name": "kafka-removebroker-4plfq"
                },
                "cruiseControlState": "GracefulDownscaleRunning"
            },
        ...
        }
```

> - Pause use-case: This time the pause has been chosen by the set of a **pause: true** label for the kafka-removebroker-lg7qm `CruiseControlOperation`. The re-execution is paused and the Koperator will execute the next `remove_broker` operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pause use-case: This time pausing has been chosen by setting a **pause: true** label on the kafka-removebroker-lg7qm `CruiseControlOperation`. The re-execution is paused and Koperator will execute the next `remove_broker` operation.
```

> - Pause use-case: This time the pause has been chosen by the set of a **pause: true** label for the kafka-removebroker-lg7qm `CruiseControlOperation`. The re-execution is paused and the Koperator will execute the next `remove_broker` operation.

Reviewer 2: **Recommended**: formatting (consistency).

```suggestion
- Pause use-case: This time the pause has been chosen by the set of a `pause: true` label for the `kafka-removebroker-lg7qm` `CruiseControlOperation`. 
  The re-execution is paused and Koperator will execute the next `remove_broker` operation.
```

```yaml
status:
...
  brokersState:
        "2": {
        ...
            "gracefulActionState": {
                "cruiseControlOperationReference": {
                    "name": "kafka-removebroker-lg7qm"
                },
                "cruiseControlState": "GracefulDownscalePaused"
            },
        ...
        },
        "3": {
        ...
            "gracefulActionState": {
                "cruiseControlOperationReference": {
                    "name": "kafka-removebroker-4plfq"
                },
                "cruiseControlState": "GracefulDownscaleRunning"
            },
        ...
        }
```

When the second `remove_broker` operation has been finished:

```yaml
status:
...
  brokersState:
        "2": {
        ...
            "gracefulActionState": {
                "cruiseControlOperationReference": {
                    "name": "kafka-removebroker-lg7qm"
                },
                "cruiseControlState": "GracefulDownscalePaused"
            },
        ...
```

> We assume that the problematic situation has been solved thus we can let the `remove_broker` operation to be retired by removing the **pause** label thus the operation will be re-executed.

Reviewer 2: **Recommended**: phrasing, formatting (consistency).

```suggestion
We assume that the problematic situation has been resolved thus we can let the `remove_broker` operation be retired by removing the `pause` label thus the operation will be re-executed.
```

---

From `Koperator` v1.21+ we have introduced the `CruiseControlOperation` custom resource. Koperator executes the Cruise Control related task based on our `CruiseControlOperation` custom resource state. This way we could get better control over Cruise Control. This better control gives us more reliability, configurability, observability and it also gives us more room for future improvements.

## How it works?

When a broker is added or removed from the  Kafka cluster or when a new storage is added for a broker the Koperator creates a `CruiseControlOperation` custom resource.
This created custom resource describes a task what will be executed by CruseControl to do the partitions movements.
Koperator watches the created `CruiseControlOperation` custom resource and updates their state based on the result of the CruiseControl task.  
Koperator can re-execute the task when it has failed.  
When there are multiple `CruiseControlOperation` at the same time CruiseControl is not able to execute more then one task thus we added a priority between the tasks depending their operation type.  

> Upscale operations will be executed first then downscale operations and after rebalance operations.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upscale operations will be executed first, then downscale operations, then rebalance operations.  
```

> Currently three CruiseControl tasks are supported.  
> The [add_broker](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control/wiki/REST-APIs#add-a-list-of-new-brokers-to-kafka-cluster), [remove_broker](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control/wiki/REST-APIs#decommission-a-list-of-brokers-from-the-kafka-cluster) and the [rebalance](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control/wiki/REST-APIs#trigger-a-workload-balance).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently three CruiseControl tasks are supported:
[add_broker](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control/wiki/REST-APIs#add-a-list-of-new-brokers-to-kafka-cluster), [remove_broker](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control/wiki/REST-APIs#decommission-a-list-of-brokers-from-the-kafka-cluster) and [rebalance](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control/wiki/REST-APIs#trigger-a-workload-balance).  
```

...
```

> 2. A new broker pod will be created and in the `KafkaCluster` status there will be the `cruiseControlOperationReference`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A new broker pod will be created and in the `KafkaCluster` status there will be a `cruiseControlOperationReference`.  
```

>    This is the reference of the created `CruiseControlOperation` custom resource.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is the reference to the created `CruiseControlOperation` custom resource.  
```

    ...
```

There are two other `cruiseControlState`s which has not been covered by the above example.  
The `GracefulUpscaleCompletedWithError` and the `GracefulUpscalePaused`.  
The `GracefulUpscalePaused` is a special state and there are more details about it in the next section.  

> The `GracefulUpscaleCompletedWithError` happens  when the Cruise Control task is failed somehow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `GracefulUpscaleCompletedWithError` happens when the Cruise Control task fails.
```

> In this case when the `cruiseControlOperation.spec.errorPolicy` is set to `retry`, (`retry` is the default value) the failed task will be re-executed by Koperator in every `30s` until it is succeeded.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case when the `cruiseControlOperation.spec.errorPolicy` is set to `retry`, (which is the default value) the failed task will be re-executed by Koperator every `30s` until it is succeeded.  
```

  retryCount: 0
```

The `status.currentTask` describes the Cruise Control task.  
The `httpRequest` field contains the whole POST HTTP request that has been executed.  
The `id` is the Cruise Control task identifier number.  
The `state` shows the progress of the add_broker request.  
The `summary` is Cruise Control's optimization proposal.  
It shows the scope of the changes that Cruise Control will apply through the operation.  
When a task execution is completed with error and there are re-executions the `retryCount` shows the number of retries.  

> In this case the history of the failed tasks are visible with the error message in the `status.failedTask` field.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case the history of the failed tasks are visible with their error messages in the `status.failedTask` field.  
```

...
```

- You can set automatic cleanup time for the created `CruiseControlOperations` in the `KafkaCluster` custom resource.  

>    In the above example the finished (completed successfully or `completedWithError` and `errorPolicy: ignore`) `CruiseControlOperation` custom resources will be deleted after the `300s` elapsed after finishing the particular operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the example below the finished (completed successfully or `completedWithError` and `errorPolicy: ignore`) `CruiseControlOperation` custom resources will be deleted after the `300s` elapsed after finishing the particular operation.
```
